<h2>1. Abstract</h2>
This paper aims to review recent approaches to the semantic understanding of road traffic using vision sensors to bridge this gap. First, this paper classifies all kinds of traffic monitoring analysis methods from two perspectives of macro traffic flow and micro road behavior. Next, the techniques for each class of methods are reviewed and discussed in detail. Finally, analyze the existing traffic monitoring challenges and corresponding solutions. 
<h2>2. Introduction</h2>
Current challenges for understanding traffic semantics: defects such as occlusions and shadows, traffic flow quantification in a complex road network, limiting the traffic semantics of training samples. 
<h2>3. Quantifying the spatiotemporal features of macro traffic flow</h2>
Traffic speed, flow volume and density are three main parameters that describe traffic flow and influence each other. 
<h3>3.1 Quantifying traffic speed features</h3>
It is divided into two main streams: camera calibration-based and reference calibration-based approaches. The speed estimation methods based on reference calibration exploit the traffic scene information. However, these methods perform poorly in a complex traffic scene with large traffic flow, traffic congestion, and severe vehicle occlusion. The vehicle scale information in these scenes is difficult to perceive and calculate. The methods based on camera calibration use the parametric matrix of the camera to reconstruct the traffic scene, which can prevent the reference calibration methods from failing in a complex scene. However, the video captured by different cameras needs to be recalibrated.
<h3>3.2 Quantifying traffic flow volume features</h3>
It is divided into vehicle counting-based and macro-model-based methods. In traffic flow volume estimation, the performance of methods based on vehicle counting is affected by the poor vehicle detection accuracy due to the use of low-resolution and low-frame-rate videos. Several works have shown that these limitations can be overcome by obtaining the vehicle density map and combining the previous traffic flow motion state.
<h3>3.3 Quantifying traffic flow density</h3>
It can be divided into local information-based and holistic-feature-based methods according to whether global spatial information is used. In traffic flow density estimation, methods based on local information require high-resolution and high framerate videos. At the same time, the estimation is easily influenced by the occlusion of vehicles and heavy traffic congestion. In contrast, the global spatial information of the image is utilized to solve the influence of vehicle partial occlusion in high-density-based deep learning methods.
<h2>4. Micro behavior recognition on roads</h2>
It is divided into three parts: vehicle behavior understanding, traffic agent interaction behavior recognition and complex temporal reasoning of vehicle behavior. 
<h3>4.1 Vehicle behavior recognition</h3>
In vehicle behavior recognition, methods based on motion feature extraction extract vehicle motion features from traffic videos. In traffic monitoring scenes, most work can avoid vehicle accidents through anomaly detection, trajectory analysis, lane change detection, and so on. Complex vehicle behavior classification and recognition should be combined with trajectory analysis. Methods based on video frame object classification combine video spatial and temporal features and are thus suited only for simple vehicle behavior recognition in sparse traffic scenes. Currently, tracking-trajectory-based methods are the mainstream methods for vehicle behavior recognition and have wide applicability.
<h3>4.2 Traffic agent interaction behavior recognition</h3>
Methods based on interactive dynamic features are simple to implement and require extracting only the status of each vehicle in a traffic video and observing the vehicle motion changes. However, the real-time vehicle state is uncertain. The motion information cannot be represented accurately and can change at any time, resulting in the inability to accurately recognize vehicle behaviors. The methods based on the interaction model consider the relationship between vehicles, and they perform well for heterogeneous traffic scenes. In fact, uncertain multimodal interactive behavior is a major challenge to study. The static infrastructure of a traffic scene, which plays a guiding role in vehicle interactions (e.g., signal lights and sidewalk), should also be considered.
<h3>4.3 Complex temporal reasoning of vehicle behavior</h3>
Complex temporal reasoning can be used to predict vehicle trajectories and future behaviors. Methods based on the physical model can use vehicle motion features to predict future motion. Compared with the traffic agent model, these methods lack interactions with other traffic agents. When the movement of a vehicle changes (brake, slow down, turn, etc.), prediction error is likely to occur. The traffic agent model considers the global interaction so that it can predict the trajectory over a long period. However, modeling the interactive relationship between multiple traffic agents leads to a complex calculation. Furthermore, approaches based on decision models are often used to predict vehicle trajectories and accidents in sparse traffic scenes.